#Season1
The lands of the Dragon are arranged in successively smaller semicircles, moving back into the mountains. As you move north, first you encounter the lowlands of the Mirumoto, where almost all of the Dragon’s farming is done. Then the terrain becomes rougher, and you find yourself in the hilly but still inviting lands of the Kitsuki. Even among the Dragon, very few will ever have call to travel through the narrow passes into the Great Wall of the North Mountains, but if they do, they will find the shrines and school-workshops of the Agasha. From this point on you are not travelling paths so much as you are climbing mountains, sheltering where you can, until you reach Kyuden Togashi, the oldest palace of the clan, inhabited by the strange monks of the Dragon and those members of the clan who have business with the Clan Champion, Togashi Yokuni, who spends much of his time in quiet meditation here, in seclusion.

While it may be scoffed at by many of the other Great Clans, the Dragon have a task just as the rest do. The Dragon record the history of Rokugan, every significant event written down on a set of massive scrolls, encoded in a serpentine script that a rare few monks even learn to read, and only the Champion seems able to learn to write. These scrolls are a prized possession for the Dragon, and should be respected and valued by all Rokugani.

Mirumoto Seo knelt in a plain room to the side of the dojo. She carefully finished the last stroke on a work of calligraphy, drying across three silk panels. The words of Shinsei, “Though a man go out to battle a thousand times against a thousand men, if he conquers himself he is the greater conqueror.” She quietly meditated, the sound of students going through their kata becoming a friendly river of sound, the shouts as they moved from form to form blurring together into just noise. From behind her, the paper screen door opened quietly, and another person joined Seo in her kneeling contemplation. After a long minute or two, Seo opened her eyes, allowing her focus to lapse. A younger student at the dojo knelt there, full to bursting with the desire to speak, but not willing to break protocol to speak first. Rising into a stretch, Seo nodded at the other student, the gesture apparently enough to assuage propriety.

“Mirumoto Seo-senpai, Dosan-sensei wishes to speak with you at once! I think the signal fire is lit!” Seo nodded. “Perhaps bandits have attacked a village, or a rogue kami is destroying crops. I suppose that Dosan-sensei will want me to run down to Shiro Kowayari and find out what’s happening.” The younger student was practically vibrating. “No, Mirumoto-senpai, the signal fire is lit above on the mountain! Something has happened.” Seo’s blood ran cold. That should not be possible. Dragon lands were fairly calm, and problems that required the signals came from outside the Clan’s lands. Normally the fires would be lit in the lowlands where the problem was occurring and the rest of the clan could trust in the rugged terrain to prevent it from spreading more quickly than a response could be mustered. “This is inauspicious. Perhaps…” Seo trailed off momentarily. “The Champion may have died. But even then, to use the signal fires is very alarming. I believe it has been three hundred years since the last time the lights came down the mountain, and I believe that was a call to war.” Both Seo and the student paled momentarily. The Dragon were in no position to fight a war currently, with dwindling numbers of samurai and the Perfect Land sect a challenge to bring into harmonious balance.Seo ran her hand across her bald head. Without another word she strode out of the room. She did not proceed directly to Dosan’s small room in the dojo’s shrine, but stopped at her own quarters first, strapping to her side the wakizashi and katana she carried as a samurai, and a small bag of travelling gear that was rarely used. Shouldering the bag, she proceeded to the shrine, and performed the ritual ablutions required to enter the sacred space, cleaning her hands and her mouth with frigid stream water.

Dosan was crosslegged, deep in thought as he faced the paths to the north. Seo knelt and prostrated herself in a deeply respectful bow. He had not visibly reacted, but Seo knew that he was aware of her presence. He broke the silence. “It took you some time to reach me, student. Time may be of the essence.” Seo, face still against the rough floor, responded. “Shinsei teaches us that he who speaks too much is blamed, he who speaks only a little is blamed, everyone is blamed in this world.”

“Ha!” A laugh that, to Seo’s ears, sounded just a little forced. “Just so. Rise.” Seo did, sitting on her heels. “The signal beacon up the mountain is lit. There is no clear procedure for us to deal with this, and sadly the dojo is nearly empty this season.” Seo knew that it had been nearly as empty the season before, and probably would be just as empty next season, too few children were being born into the Mirumoto families, and too many were going up the mountain to join the Ise, Kikage, and Tsurai Zumi monks. Still, she considered, the life of a Taoist Blade was hardly more traditional, and she did not expect to marry or bear children.  “Master, let us not begin with defeat in our hearts. I volunteer to run north until I discover what has happened, and help if I can.” Dosan smiled the smile of a proud grandfather, and gestured towards the mountains. “Go then, bring honor to the Gray Peak dojo, and may you walk with Shinsei.” He seemed to consider briefly, then added “And don’t forget to pack some food, in case you are travelling some distance.” ~~~----~~~

The path up towards the watchtower was broken and required Seo to travel across several switchbacks. Seo supposed that it would make assaulting the tower more difficult, but at the moment she wished that they had chosen to build the path a bit easier to walk up in peacetime. Banging a fist against the heavy door built into the squat building, Seo called out "Open up, I am here to receive the report!" After a short wait, the thick wooden bar for the door scraped free and the door opened, a samurai-ko whose bedraggled hair betrayed that her day was not going much better than Seo's. She stood aside, and Seo stepped in and took in the scene. A well-muscled man wearing only rough-spun pants lay on the floor, gasping for air. A tattoo of a stylized centipede stretched across his chest, and seemed to writhe and crawl as he breathed. Seo knelt at his side, and he gripped her forearm tightly.

“They took... “ the tattooed monk continued to try to pull more air into his lungs. “The Chronicle is taken. We need…” He collapsed back. The watchtower guard stood beside Seo, clearly concerned and confused. “What is wrong with him? He does not seem injured, but he is clearly, expended in some way.” Seo took a moment to calm the monk, who continued to breathe heavily, nearly limp. “It is nothing to fear, if you have not known many Ise Zumi, some of their magical tattoos result in this effect, great power that drains all ki from the body. He will need to be carried if he is to be moved, but the aftereffects will dissipate in a day or so. He must have used one to reach this far down the watchtower in so little time.” Much of Seo’s early life had been spent in a temple in the mountains, and while the Ise Zumi were not common anywhere, they sometimes visited the temple to learn from Seo’s mother and father.  She rolled this around in her mind. “Some force may have attacked Kyuden Togashi. Your duty is here…” For the first time, Seo took in the samurai’s face and mon. A Kitsuki, from the distinctive deep brown eyes, and from the two swords at her hip and the stance she was falling into from habit, trained as a Mirumoto bushi. “Kitsuki-san. You must maintain the watchtower. If others come, direct them up the mountain. I will travel north to investigate.”  The bushi straightened, hefting the monk over her shoulders. “It is growing late, Mirumoto-san, and you know that the nights here are not easy. You should stay here, eat, rest, and proceed into the mountains at first light. No-one is served by you falling and breaking an ankle on one of the narrow paths up there in the dark.”

Seo stopped briefly, considering the bushi’s words. “There is too much at stake here. The Chronicle is our clan’s sacred task, assigned to us by the first Hantei. The dishonor would be… If the Crab fail in their duty, the Empire loses its future. If we fail in ours, the Empire has lost its past. If I die out there tonight, I will die doing my duty.” The woman opened her mouth as if to protest, but Seo was already trotting out of the tower.  It was a late fall evening, so small flurries of snow were beginning to drift from the sky. At first, following the narrow trail  up the steep hills clustered at the foot of the mountains was easy. Seo had walked these trails a few dozen times, acting as a messenger or representative of Agasha Dosan and the dojo. Her light jog covered ground quickly, and kept her warm, but the dull burning in her calves was only getting worse. She’d need to take a break soon, stretch, eat something. For now, she kept running. The setting sun disappeared behind a nearby peak, and long shadows turned into a dark gloom that covered everything. Seo tripped over a rock, then, perhaps ten minutes later, again. She pulled up, breathing hard, and found a stump nearby that she relaxed onto.

She gratefully ate one of the rice balls. Normally she eschewed meat, as most of the dojo did, but this was not a normal day, and she needed all the energy she could muster. The goat jerky was salty, but had a peppery aftertaste. It made Seo think of Fumiho, the old woman who did the cooking, and most of the other domestic duties, at the dojo. Fumiho was always kind to the young samurai training to master the blade and the Tao, and in return there were few graduates who would not have killed a man for disparaging her. “Time to get back in motion” Seo said to no-one in particular, and stood. The night seemed far darker than it was when she had sat down. Seo sighed. This was going to happen eventually, it was simply too dark to manage the path. She took a deep breath, centering herself and purging doubt and hesitation. It was nearly impossible to explain to someone who had not walked the path of the Tao, but when you achieve sufficient harmony with Everything, allowing Yourself to fade away, it was possible to do things that simply could not be done while maintaining a strong sense of self. Seo began to run again. She could not see. In fact, her eyes were closed most of the time, but it was no different for her now than it would be to walk about the dojo in the dark. Every twist in the path, every fallen tree, she was not just familiar with it, but intimate, sudden shifts in the path feeling like stepping in loose sand barefoot. The concentration required was intense, and she was moving more slowly than she was before, but she would not, could not stop. Not tonight.

It was after midnight, the hour of the Ox, and Seo was considering another stop for a rest. Eschewing Self made the angry demands of her body seem distant, but they were still unmistakably present. As she ran, however, she suddenly became aware of someone else nearby. Someone small. Seo skidded to a stop. Whoever it was, they could not be as important as the Chronicle. One step, then two. Her concentration wavered, Fumiho’s deeply lined face filled her thoughts. She looked disappointed. “Fine, obaasan, although it doesn’t seem fair for you to start haunting me before you die.” Without any further hesitation, she leapt off the path, dropping into a slide down the bank of a small ravine. When she reached the bottom, she found a young boy, perhaps seven or eight years old. He screamed as she dropped down nearly on top of him, dirt, small rocks, and a shower of pine needles.  The boy was wearing a simple robe that marked him as a peasant, his black hair shaggy and unkempt, brown eyes that seemed too big for his face peeking out from behind upflung arms. He was painfully thin, and the cold was obviously biting deep, his quivers only partially from fear. “Please Hibagon-sama, I am sorry! Don’t eat me please!” This was a little too much for Seo, whose concentration failed and the world snapped back into being something wholly separate from her Self. She laughed, not cruelly, but rather with as much softness as she could muster.

“I am no mountain monster, little one, and I am definitely not hairy enough to be the Hibagon.” The boy’s relief was palpable. His arms dropped, and he looked up at Seo with hope in his eyes.  “Oh! Samurai-sama, how can I help you?” He shakily rose from his crouching position and gave Seo the deepest bow he could manage. Seo didn’t smile, but the boy’s weaponization of the traditional respect amused her. Accepting him into her service in any respect would tie any honorable samurai to ensuring that he survived. She intended to make sure of that anyway, but the expectations of an eight year old abandoned in the mountains at night could not be high. “Hmm, I am travelling up the mountain and could use a guide, if you know the way.” The boy snapped back upright and a nervous smile spread across his face.  “If I were out of this ditch, samurai-sama, I could easily guide you up the mountain!” The two of them considered the wall of the ravine, side by side, the boy clearly trying to emulate Seo’s posture.  “Well, up on my back then, little one. My name is Mirumoto Seo, what is yours?” The boy scrambled up onto Seo’s back as requested, then softly replied. “The people in my village call me Inu, Mirumoto-sama. They are not very nice about it though.” Seo frowned and began to climb, not able to see, but the undergrowth was heavy and the wall not so steep that she could not manage it.

“You know” Seo grunted in exertion “There was a child who travelled with Togashi named Tsang. He was killed in an accident, and Togashi whispered in his ear. This changed him into the first Holy Dog, or Bearded Tsang if they’re not in a temple. Inu is a good name, dogs are loyal and hard-working creatures.” When Seo’s parents had died, she had managed not to show emotion in front of the rest of the dojo, but had cried bitterly into the massive manes of the temple mastiffs. They were placid for her, she could lose control in a way that she never did around anyone human. There was something about a dog as big as you were that made the world seem less dark, less dangerous. Another couple steps and they were back on the path. Seo took a few deep breaths and turned her head, addressing Inu again. “So which way, wise guide?” The boy somehow had fallen asleep while she climbed. His small body was relaxed into hers, trusting as only a child can. Seo hiked him up on her back, and, purging her Self once more, ran into the night.

Inu woke up to a familiar feeling of an ache in his stomach. Hunger. He scrambled free of the futon, surprised by its quality. Was the night before a dream? He slid the shoji screen aside, exiting the room and rubbing at his eyes. He was in an inn, a much nicer one than he had ever been inside before. The common room was spacious and there were several samurai, including some wearing colors he did not recognize. A serving girl, probably only four or five years older than him, scurried up and took his hand. “Come, Inu-kun, there is food for you in the kitchen”. He obediently followed her and was sat at a small table in the kitchen. It was warmer in there, which he appreciated, and he appreciated the large breakfast that was put in front of him even more. As he munched on the rice and drank the miso soup, something occurred to him.  “Where is Mirumoto-sama? That brought me here?” Before the serving girl could stop pouring him tea and answer, he added another question. “And where is this?” She smiled at him.

“This is the Plum Blossom Inn, Mirumoto-sama went to the castle to meet with the nobles there.” She set the teapot down, and he drank deeply of the hot tea, feeling life return to his toes. “You are inside the walls of Shiro Kitsuki, the Last Step Castle.” Inu started, he had heard stories of Shiro Kitsuki, but never thought he would ever go there. He stood and walked to a window, peering out. The castle was separated into three massive, beautiful keeps, each almost two hundred feet tall, with tan masonry and green roofs. Behind the castle Inu could see a narrow road winding its way into the mountains, dotted with shrines. Peering hard, he thought he could almost make out a golden castle high in the mountain, but then he blinked, and it was gone. The serving girl stepped up next to him. “It’s pretty, but you get used to it. Mirumoto-sama wanted me to ask, what happened to your parents, why were you in the mountains?” Inu felt his face flush with shame. His parents abandoned him, he was one mouth too many to feed. He couldn’t go home, they’d just have to leave him again. He might explain this to Mirumoto-sama, but there was no chance he was going to talk about it to this girl.  “The tea was very good. Could I have some more?” She smiled, nodded, and turned to get it. The moment her back was turned, Inu jumped through the window into the street outside, and ran. Mirumoto-sama was in the castle somewhere, and he was going to find her. She would take him with her, he knew it. The first gate into the castle was easy. He said he served Mirumoto Seo, and had a message to deliver to her. This was not a lie, and the gate guards seemed unimpressed with the potential threat he could offer. From then on however, it was much more difficult. The servants in the castle seemed to know he didn’t belong, just from how they looked at him, so he could not ask them for directions. That left the various samurai, but imposing on their time was dangerous.

As he slipped from room to room, staying on the outskirts, eyes probing for the bald head and green robes of Mirumoto Seo, he heard his chance. A tall samurai in Dragon green was speaking to another in the yellow robes of the Lion. “I am sorry Ikoma-san, I cannot fulfill our agreement to play go today, I have been called to an important meeting with the daimyo. Perhaps tomorrow?” Inu’s eyes narrowed. The daimyo was probably who Seo would want to talk to, since she was obviously important. He made himself as small and unimportant looking as possible, no great challenge, and followed the tall man as he walked away. It quickly became clear that this man was important as well, all the guards seemed to know him and opened doors in front of him. They did not seem to notice Inu either, even as he was forced to close right up behind the man’s court robes.

Eventually the two of them entered a large room with thick wooden walls instead of the more common paper screens. It was dark, but brackets with torches lit the room enough to see several large groups of samurai, all wearing Dragon green, kneeling and waiting. The tall man joined one of the groups and folded his legs underneath himself. Inu thought it looked kind of like a large insect, the way his legs moved. Inu found a dark corner and put his back to the wall, watching. He picked out who he thought was Seo, but she was in a group with several other men and women with shaved heads, so he was not completely sure. A guard in the front of the room banged on the floor with the wooden end of a naginata, and everyone bent forward in a prostrate bow. Inu scrambled down just in time as an elderly man in very fine robes swept into the room. He found a seat on a wooden chair and spread his hands, one holding an open fan, wide. “Greetings intrepid samurai. Thank you for responding to the signal.” Everyone sat back on their heels, but keeping their heads slightly inclined respectfully. The man continued “I will not waste anyone’s time with formalities, you are the first to arrive. Some entity or group of entities have invaded Kyuden Togashi, and broken into the vault. By the time the Ise Zumi rallied and fought back, they managed to extract the Chronicle of Rokugan, nearly in its entirety. This sacred document, inspired by the Kami Togashi himself, must be recovered. To accomplish this, every available student-practitioner of the Kitsuki method is to proceed to the Kyuden, and cooperate in an investigation there. My karo, Kitsuki Kotone, will be assigning bushi from those who have arrived and our existing guards here to travel with the investigators, aiding and protecting them. I expect you all to bring honor to the Dragon, and put an end to this crisis.”

The man’s fine robes swirled around him as he left the room again, and a stern-looking middle aged woman began barking out names. Inu listened carefully. “Kitsuki Kaagi. Mirumoto Seo.” The very tall man and Seo stood up. “Begin your investigation on the western face of Mount Kobushi. Some of the invaders may have retreated that way.” Inu watched as Seo and Kaagi began to walk out of the room, speaking to each other. He was about to follow them when a voice called his name, softly. “Inu-kun, come here!” The voice was coming from a small figure, childlike, wearing a full face mask stylized to look like a bird. The person turned and scampered down a corridor that Inu hadn’t noticed before, leaving only a few black feathers in their wake. He was torn where to go.