(*[Source](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12K7Pqj-iiqSb60n0vsfpQUpA2v67WfsCRxCgkyoLhzE/edit)*)
# The Current Day in Rokugan
*(Note: This is mostly out of character knowledge, you would only have detailed knowledge about the elements surrounding your own clan.)*
## Crab
The Crab took some territory from the Crane during the era of upheaval before the coronation of [[Empress Yuki]], and in fact they are relatively ascendant militarily, although their increased responsibilities means that their abilities in fact are not much greater. They still man the Kaiu wall, protecting the Empire from the shadowlands, and have begun expanding it further and further into the north, dividing the former Unicorn lands now under their control from the Burning Sands to the west. Raids by the Dark Khanate are common, and the terrain that the Crab are now defending is unfamiliar, but rich.
The most unusual part of the Crab in the modern day is the Revenant Legion, untainted humans who have wandered out of the Shadowlands, lacking any memory, but with the touch of the realm of the dead still upon them. They have been adopted en masse into the Hiruma family, and yet another attempt to recapture their ancestral home may soon begin, stiffened by these new samurai.
## Crane
The Crane have suffered greatly over the last few years, [[Death of the Water Dragon|the tsunami]] and connected famine has devastated their lands, bleeding it white of peasants. If not for the aging Daimyo of the Crane and her wife and their continued strength in the courts of Rokugan, the hungry eyes of the Crab and Lion likely would have taken a great deal from them. [[Doji Hoturi]] is expected to retire soon, but anyone who believes that her wife, [[Doji Kachiko]], is the harmless grandmother she appears to be is likely to suffer the consequences of that belief.
The Crane are seeking new blood, and are drawing closer and closer to the Mantis to accomplish this. The Crane and Mantis together have nearly unchallenged control of Rokugan’s coast, and if they can find a way to exploit this, they could easily experience a renaissance of their power.
## Dragon
The Dragon have always been isolationist and enigmatic, and this has not changed, in fact, very little has changed from their default position. The Kitsuki make up a large portion of the Sapphire Magistrates, the tattooed monks travel throughout the empire dispensing their cryptic wisdom, and the Mirumoto have maintained their rivalry with the Kakita. They are committed to attempting to preserve and protect the elemental dragons, and combating the forces of the darkness that seek to destroy them.
## Lion
The Lion are at a crossroads. Their military dominance is challenged by the expansion of the Crab, but their traditional enemies in the Crane and Scorpion are at a nadir of their strength. The largest problem they face however is the death of [[Toturi]] and the treachery of [[Matsu Hina]], which has denied them their strongest voice for restraint and also cast a shadow on their most aggressive family. Which faction bounces back the most successfully will have a massive influence on the Lion and on the Empire as a whole.
## Phoenix
The Phoenix have been split into the Shrike, Octopus, Weasel, Rooster, and Owl clans. The families of the Phoenix have had their names taken from them, save for the Shiba, and they have distributed themselves throughout their newly balkanized lands. The pacifism of the Phoenix will be tested. The balance of power between the new minor clans may shift. The secrets of the Invisible Library may be plundered. The elements of Rokugan are out of balance, just as the clan with the most knowledge of how to identify and repair this imbalance is nearly destroyed. 
## Scorpion
The Scorpion have avoided the worst of the repercussions for their part in the War of Three Emperors, thanks to [[Doji Kachiko]] and the death of [[Bayushi Shoju]]. Internally however the war has never ended, with the Black Scorpion who seek to follow their duty above their loyalty fighting the Red Scorpion who value loyalty above duty. Not even the Scorpion can confidently identify which of their members is which much of the time, and the Kuroiban’s primacy in the organized hunt for the darkness is threatened by the disorder of the Scorpion’s house.
## Unicorn
The loyal Unicorn are few in number and now are a nomadic people. They are valued auxiliary troops in the war season and some of the most lucrative traders throughout the year, but the expense of wintering in foreign lands limits their ability to grow. Lands of their own and victory over the Dark Khanate are the dearest desires of the surviving Unicorn, but their survival balances on a narrow edge.
## Minor Clans with significance
### Badger
The Badger are an insular mountain clan, who have been granted a great deal more land than they ever have administered before. While their relations with the Goat were tempestuous, they landed more or less positively. They still are the most obvious rival of the Badger, and whether war or peace is driven by the two clans will be very impactful on their mutual future.
### Fox
The Fox are in a troubling position, having a blood feud with the most powerful minor clan and their traditional ally in the Unicorn having been more or less dissolved. They are likely to be seeking new allies and be willing to pay dearly for them, making their future dynamics hard to predict.
### Mantis
The Mantis are closely allied with the Crane at this point, and rule the waves. Their search for leverage to accomplish their long-term goal of major clan status may turn internal to Rokugan, with the fragments of [Fu Leng](https://l5r.fandom.com/wiki/Fu_Leng) in play, or it may turn external, with the new Empress perhaps not being as isolationist as the last few.